Welcome to the Life Church Podcast.
We are an Acts 2 42 community, a family on a mission to bring a life of Jesus to warranty.
We hope you're ready to hear what God has to say to you today through His Word and by His Spirit.
Good morning church.
It's lovely to be with everyone this morning.
Thanks for coming to worship with us.
We are continuing with our Roman road series.
Dave's preach just, I'm like, how can I match up to your preach?
That was a very good one.
Thank you last week.
So we started off with Olaf Singed, which was Dave Packard, and Dave spoke on Christite for us.
And today we're going to be speaking on the third part of the series which is Confess Jesus is Lord.
So I'm just going to introduce the scripture.
We're going to read and then we'll start.
Our focus test for today is Romans 10, 9 and 10.
I'm reading from the NIV version.
If you declare with your mouth Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead you will be saved.
I'm going to read it again and I'm going to substitute one word which is actually in our topic.
If you
confess with your mouth.
Jesus is Lord.
And believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead.
You will be saved.
So the word I swapped out there was declare.
They both mean the same thing declare confess, making a proclamation.
What you can see there is
two things.
So basically, it's a responsibility and an act.
So it is something we have to do.
Now, if you back up a bit, Jesus has done his part.
He's died on the cross.
He's paid for salvation with his blood.
But salvation is not so he's done that for everyone.
But what differentiates the believer from the non-believer is that the believer does something.
In fact, no, those two things declare.
So confesses with the amount that Jesus is Lord and the belief in their heart that God raised him from the dead.
That's how the salvation occurs.
A while ago, I got a message from my bank that said, your ATM has expired.
So we're sending you a new card.
So, you know, when ATM just came out, they will send you, I think they will send you the PIN first, and then they will send you the card.
That's the way,
either of them that will send you the card on the pink first.
But because we're so used to it, we're used to contact less, we're used to different ways of paying these days.
We kind of forget that original way.
So my card came and my other card had expired.
So I just put it in my wallet and I went to shop.
And I got everything together, tap, tap, declined.
But I was sure I had money in it.
And I tapped again, declined.
I'm like, I know, I know.
I'm sure I'm really sure.
So I told the guy at the counter, I wait, and then I checked my bank.
And I looked and said this morning and it.
And then I tapped again, declined again.
And so then I had to use another card.
And I kept wondering on my way home, why did this card decline?
And then it occurred to me that I had not waited for the pin to come.
And I had not
because I use, you know, Bank of Scotland.
So it's, they're kind of ancient in their ways.
So I didn't, so I don't gotten my pain, I had not activated my card.
So what's the point of this story?
Is there money in the card?
Yes.
Could I use the card?
No, because they needed to be an activation.
As Jesus provided,
Salvation, yes.
Can you just be saved?
Can you just be?
Just think it and be it?
No.
There is a path to play in salvation.
Salvation is not passive.
You have to be a willful participant.
I know some of you are wondering, but I'm a believer, I've given my life to Christ.
Why am I hearing this?
I've been saved.
So why was the point of this?
We're getting there.
Jesus has done his part.
He's died and is rose again.
But we have our part.
We have the responsibility of believing on the resurrection and the saving part of Jesus.
So
When I looked at this verse, and I was thinking of this preach, and I was wondering, why did this verse come like this?
Why is it the declaration before the believing?
That was me, that's in my opinion.
Because actually the two come together, and if you could just swap it a little bit, because
You can confess what you don't believe.
You can say what you don't believe, but you can confess because confession comes from a place of belief.
It's not just thinking, it's not a mental ascent.
It's not just agreeing.
It has to drop from here to here.
The only way I can see, I can say I'm a Christian,
But it means nothing.
If I don't believe it, anybody can say the man on the street can say it.
I'm a Christian just to get by.
But if you really, really, if Jesus is your, for your salvation to be active, you have to believe that Jesus
was raised from the dead by God.
Why?
Because that's the whole point of Christianity.
That's what differentiates Christianity from the other faiths.
That's what differentiates belief and non-belief.
If Jesus died and didn't resurrect, there's no point of Christianity.
Because everything, the path of Christianity hinges on is on that resurrection.
On that, but because our resurrection is what carries the path of healing, for deliverance, for living a victorious life, everything is hinged on that resurrection from the dead.
Because if he just died and stayed dead, then he's just like every other person.
Confess, confession comes from a place of belief.
So when we say Jesus is Lord, the question is, is he your Lord?
Are we saying it or do we believe it?
So I'm going to tell you a story.
This is a story that we all know.
We read it in Sunday school and we're talking about it today.
But there's a context of this story I want us to take as I recount the story.
I'm not going to read it from the Bible.
I'm just going to jist the story.
Sheldrach Mesha, an Abednego in Daniel.
Three young boys.
We believe in God.
But what differentiated them from the others?
It's not just their belief.
Their belief was brought to the test.
So, everyone was told to bow.
And they said they were not going to bow to this image.
And they said, if you don't bow, you're going to go in the fire.
Okay.
They didn't just say, okay, now Kastos,
This said, that we are not going to bow to this idol.
You cast us in the fire, even if we die.
But we believe that God, the God we save, we deliver us.
And all those some translations says, even if he don't.
But no.
They believed that God was going to save them.
That was the definition, that was the dividing place of belief and non-belief.
And of course, we know how the story went.
They went, they were thrown into the fire, but what happened?
They were dancing in the fire, and there was a third, there was a fourth man with them, the Holy Spirit.
God not only delivered them,
But God showed an example.
So we see that confessing Him is not just for the sake of same.
It's got to come from here.
It has to come from within, and then it comes out.
Declaring Jesus as your Lord means taking a stand.
It means separating yourself.
Like I say, it's not just saying.
It's in your Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday through to Sunday.
I think it was a while ago with preaching on it.
I think it was a godliness.
When people see you interact with you, are they quickly able to tell that you're a child of God?
or you're just like everyone else.
I'm not saying, or when people meet us, the first thing we should say is quote scriptures.
Note what you believe.
Once you interact with somebody in another 20, 30 minutes, you can tell who they are.
You can tell where they stand.
You can tell what their belief system, even if you don't have the full idea,
you'll start having an idea by the time you're interacting with them.
So that's question, you know, we ask ourselves, we should know when we interact with others, our lives, does it reflect our belief that Jesus is Lord?
So let's break up what we read.
If you declare with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, do we declare it?
Do we say it?
Do we interact?
When we interact with people in our sphere of influence, can people tell that we believe us?
Question we should ask ourselves, do we
You know, when you think about it, why is it so difficult for us to communicate our faith in our everyday lives in this part of the world?
Why do we find it difficult?
And like I said, you know, I said, I said, why are we saying, because we were wondering, we are all Christians, why?
Because if we're not showing their loads, loads, loads of people that are not saved, like if anything happens to them today, they're not going to heaven because they don't know Jesus and they've not confessed Jesus as their Lord.
Why?
Because they've actually not heard.
They've not come to the place where they can
believe in their hearts or confess with their mouth.
So that's the whole purpose of why we are learning this series.
We thank God for the gift of salvation.
We thank God that we've been delivered from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of Israel.
We thank God for where we are.
What about those who don't know where they are?
Because believe you meet these people, these ones, which we meet
Every day, they need to believe in their heart that Jesus is Lord, that God raised him from the dead, and they need to confess with their mouth that Jesus is their Lord.
Before they can be saved, the great commission says that we should go and make disciples.
How can we make those disciples
if they've not heard.
So yes, we've done these things and that's okay for us, but how can we use that?
How can we communicate that to the world around us?
God is not looking for anonymous Christians.
He's looking for those who believe
who will communicate their faith to the world around them, who will make disciples.
What you don't... Why will...
If you're happy being a Christian, if you're happy that Jesus is your Lord, why shouldn't other people know?
Why would that be a compartment of your life?
That should define your life.
That should be your identity.
It should be that you are first that before anything else.
As I'm preaching to you, I'm preaching also to myself.
Because these are things that we should reflect on on a constant basis.
Thank God for salvation.
Then what?
If you don't take anything from what I've said today, one thing we should take home is this.
When we say Jesus is our Lord, is a mental ascent or is it a belief?
Is it coming from here?
out when we confess Jesus as our Lord.
Because yes, we've all said this in our prayer, but on a constant basis, is He our Lord?
Are we confessing Him as our Lord?
How are we preaching the world, the Word of God,
to others.
I've asked that before.
I want us to go to romance.
So still in romance 10, but I'm going to read romance 10, 14.
How then can they call on the one that they have not believed in?
And how can they believe in the one in whom they've not heard?
And how can they hear without someone preaching to them?
Second point to reflect on.
How am I communicating my faith to others?
Because in God I have found healing, deliverance, restoration is a constant and a sweet journey.
Yes, it has opened down, but it's much better than being in the world.
So this beautiful thing that I've found, how am I communicating this to others?
Because believe you me, the world out there is hurting.
But there is a Savior, there's someone who has paid the price for them.
However, they can come into that realm of salvation until they believe and confess with their mouth.
But then they have to hear that good news for them to be able to make that stand.
So it's something that we should reflect on as children of God.
How are we doing that in our daily lives?
In our spheres of influence, how are we doing?
Now we've made that commitment.
We believe in our hearts and we've confessed with our mouth and we live in the Christian life.
It doesn't mean we are above reproach.
It doesn't mean we are above, no, reproach is not the word.
It doesn't mean we may not make mistakes as people.
But does that mean we need constant saving every day like that?
If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us and cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
Now there is a balance to that, Romans.
I want to read it out.
Romans 6, verse 1, what shall we see then?
Shall we go on sinning so that grace may increase?
By no means we are those who have died to sin.
How can we live in it any longer?
When you get translated from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of God, you've left
a sinful life, you've come into God.
His spirit has come to make home in your life.
Now, when we were in the world, when we're not believers, we have a nature of sin.
But when you become a believer, you no longer have a nature of sin.
However, you live in the world.
You are in this world, but you're not of this world.
And so you may sin.
But we have an advocate, we have Jesus who has paid the price for every past, present, future, so we can come boldly to Him, repents, and take grace to help us not to do it again.
Remind ourselves that we are no longer slaves to sin,
We can overcome sin because we have him residing on the inside of us.
We have his spirit.
His spirit helps us.
And so it's every day, taking hold of what his spirit has made, the provision his spirit has made, you know, in us receiving grace, not to make the same mistakes, not to make, make, you know, not to do the same things over and over again.
Why so that we can grow in righteousness?
We can grow in strength, grow in Him and be better able to communicate Him to the world.
Remember what I said.
God is not looking for anonymous Christians.
If we are to fulfill the Great Commission, we have to preach because the world has to hear the word.
Preach, preach declaring the word, preach the way you live your life.
Preach as an example because there are loads of people.
We live, look around us.
It's a heart and world.
Why am I saying this again?
I'm reiterating it so we can keep it within your thoughts, keep it within your hearts.
Nobody wants their loved ones, not assessing what they have in God.
The way we can be a difference
is by being the difference.
Let's not just be people who say, say it.
In all this, what the court Christian is, just say it, no.
Believe, confess, preach, be the example, so that someone can make that journey and get to the place where they can say,
I believed in my heart.
I confessed with my mouth that Jesus is Lord.
And I got translated from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of God's dear son.
You remember, you know, some people get to a place where they'll be like, I don't think
I can preach, I don't think it's for me.
I don't think I can really boldly sit with people and say that Jesus is, you know, because what?
He could make us odd.
Especially the days we live in, you just bring up the topic of faith and people excuse themselves.
So it makes us get to a place where you're like, like a place of shame.
I don't want to talk about it.
I don't want to be the odd one.
Well, we know what we believe when it matters.
I don't have to criticize you or you criticize me.
You know yourself.
what you believe when the time comes, when push comes to show you yourself, you know where you stand.
And like I said, no one wants their loved ones to miss out on this side of heaven.
No one wants.
And not just on this side, when they pass away, when they go, when they leave this world, you don't want, you want them in the right place.
And based on what we know as children of God, you want them to have made that.
And this is not just family, friends.
We're talking about co-workers.
We're talking about people that matter within our neighbors, friends, people that live our community.
I say that to say, we think, think about it.
There are reasons why we may be shy.
But remember, remember Peter?
Despite he followed Jesus, when push came to show he denied Jesus.
Three times someone that was Jesus' right-hand man.
What does that look like in our today life?
Maybe at work, we ask you, are you a Christian?
Or can someone pray for us?
And I don't want people to sing, but you know.
No.
Sometimes just that thing you say, just that stepping up is a difference someone needs.
That truth that Jesus wants communicated in that situation,
May just be the one thing that person needs.
And in a words, he repented genuinely.
And it was forgiving and eventually became a pillar, the rock on which the church was built.
Why am I saying that?
We ask ourselves to do, where are we?
And you wonder, why am I repeating this?
It is important.
Have we been in a situation where we have denied Jesus in one way or the other?
Have we been in a situation where we are supposed to advocate or supposed to preach or supposed to win someone or supposed to
Communicate God's love to someone and we've held back.
Remember, He is faithful and just to forgive us.
He just repents.
Let's thank God for our gifts, the gift of salvation.
The gift that we all have by His grace,
But then what?
Let's think about how we can help others come to this gift.
That's the whole point of my standing here today.
That's the whole point of this bridge.
Amen.
Let us pray.
Father, we thank you.
We give you praise.
We give you glory.
We honor you.
We thank you for your word.
We thank you for your son dying for us.
We thank you for the gift of salvation.
Yes, we have declared with our mouth
who've made that translation from the kingdom of darkness, the kingdom of your dear son, Lord Jesus, help us to not just receive this gift for ourselves only, for father, for you help us to do with it.
As your son did, help us to go into our world, to communicate this to our world, it's not to be shy of communicating you to the world.
in any way, shape, or form.
Help us to receive grace to do that on a constant basis.
Help us to be example of believers in our word, thoughts, and deeds.
Help us to continue to confess Jesus as our Lord.
Thank you, Jesus, for you.
for the gift, your gift that you've given to us.
We are grateful.
Amen.
We've come to the end of this week's message.
We hope you've been impacted and inspired.
Please keep up to date with everything that's happening by visiting our website at www.livechurchdorrington.com.